Update Ballerina Testing docs (#993)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/learn/testing-quick-start.md

---
layout: ballerina-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: Quick Start
description: Learn how to use Ballerina's built-in test framework to write testable code. The test framework provides a set of building blocks to help write and run tests.
keywords: ballerina, programming language, testing
permalink: /swan-lake/learn/testing-quick-start/
active: testing-quick-start
redirect_from:
  - /swan-lake/learn/how-to-test-ballerina-code/
  - /swan-lake/learn/how-to-test-ballerina-code
  - /swan-lake/learn/testing-quick-start/
  - /swan-lake/learn/testing-quick-start
---

> Ballerina Language has a built-in robust test framework that allows you to achieve multiple levels of the test pyramid including unit testing, integration testing and end to end testing.  It provides features such as assertions, data providers, mocking and code coverage which enables the programmers to write comprehensive tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina Language has a built-in robust test framework, which allows you to achieve multiple levels of the test pyramid including unit testing, integration testing, and end to end testing.  It provides features such as assertions, data providers, mocking, and code coverage, which enables the programmers to write comprehensive tests.
```

# Quick Start

> Let’s write a simple Ballerina function that we want to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s write a simple Ballerina function to test it.
```

> 1. First, let’s create a Ballerina project and add a new module. Use the ballerina new command to create the project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, let’s create a Ballerina project and add a new module. Use the `ballerina new` command to create the project. 
```

For more information on the command, see [Structuring Ballerina Code](swan-lake/learn/structuring-ballerina-code/).

>     The standard project will hold the below structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The standard project will hold the structure below.
```

    ```bash
    project-name/
        Ballerina.toml         
        src/
            module1/           	
                main.bal   
                Module.md
                [resources/]
                tests/
                    main_test.bal
                    [resources]	   
    ```

> 2. Now, let’s write the function that handles sending a get request in the ***main.bal*** file of the module you just

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Now, let’s write the function, which handles sending a get request in the ***main.bal*** file of the module you just
```

 created.
 
    ```ballerina
    // main.bal
    
    import ballerina/io;
    import ballerina/http;
    import ballerina/stringutils;
    
    http:Client clientEndpoint = new("https://api.chucknorris.io/jokes/");
    

>     // This function performs a get request to Chuck Norris API and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // This function performs a `get` request to the Chuck Norris API and
```

            "created_at":"2020-01-05 13:42:24.40636",
            "icon_url":"https://assets.chucknorris.host/img/avatar/chuck-norris.png",
            "id":"7hM0_eLTSaiXmpHO_29iOg","updated_at":"2020-01-05 13:42:24.40636",
            "url":"https://api.chucknorris.io/jokes/7hM0_eLTSaiXmpHO_29iOg",
            "value":"When Chuck Norris wants an egg, he cracks open a chicken."
        };
        mockResponse.setPayload(mockPayload);
        return mockResponse;
    }
    
    ```

4. Finally, let’s execute the tests using the following command.

    `$ ballerina test --code-coverage --all`

    This will print an output similar to the following.

    ```
    Compiling source
        asma/foo:0.1.0
    
    Creating balos
        target/balo/foo-2020r2-any-0.1.0.balo
    
    Running Tests with Coverage
        asma/foo:0.1.0
    When Sheldon wants an egg, he cracks open a chicken.
    
        [pass] testGetRandomJoke
    
        1 passing
        0 failing
        0 skipped
    
    Generating Test Report
        target/test_results.json
    
        View the test report at: file:///home/asma/test/foo/target/report/index.html
    ```
 
 ## What's Next

> Now that you have an understanding of how a test case can be written and executed let us deep dive into the available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, that you have an understanding of how a test case can be written and executed, you can dive deep into the available
```
